
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# A template R workflow for general data analysis

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

This repository is a template for a
[`docker`](https://www.docker.com/get-started)-containerised,
[`{targets}`](https://docs.ropensci.org/targets/)-based,
[`{renv}`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html)-enabled
[`R`](https://cran.r-project.org/) workflow for general data analysis.

## About the Project

\[A DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT GOES HERE\]

## Repository Structure

The project repository is structured as follows:

    ihtm-targets-template
        |-- .github/
        |-- R/
        |-- data-raw/
        |-- data/
        |-- outputs/
        |-- renv
        |-- reports
        |-- .Rprofile
        |-- _targets.R
        |-- packages.R
        |-- renv.lock

- `.github` contains project testing and automated deployment of outputs
  workflows via continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD)
  using Github Actions.

- `R/` contains functions developed/created specifically for use in this
  workflow.

- `data-raw/` contains raw datasets, usually either downloaded from
  source or added manually, that are used in the project.

- `data/` contains intermediate and final data outputs produced by the
  workflow.

- `outputs/` contains compiled reports and figures produced by the
  workflow.

- `renv/` contains `renv` package specific files and directories used by
  the package for maintaining R package dependencies within the project.
  The directory `renv/library`, is a library that contains all packages
  currently used by the project. This directory, and all files and
  sub-directories within it, are all generated and managed by the `renv`
  package. Users should not change/edit these manually.

- `reports/` contains literate code for R Markdown and/or Quarto reports
  rendered in the workflow.

- `.Rprofile` file is a project R profile generated when initiating
  `renv` for the first time. This file is run automatically every time R
  is run within this project, and `renv` uses it to configure the R
  session to use the `renv` project library.

- `_targets.R` file defines the steps in the workflow’s data ingest,
  data processing, data analysis, and reporting pipeline.

- `packages.R` file lists out all R package dependencies required by the
  workflow.

- `renv.lock` file is the `renv` lockfile which records enough metadata
  about every package used in this project that it can be re-installed
  on a new machine. This file is generated by the `renv` package and
  should not be changed/edited manually.

## Reproducibility

### R version

This project is built using `R 4.6.1`. To manage R versions, it is
recommended to use [`rig`](https://github.com/r-lib/rig) - an R
installation manager - to be able to install multiple versions of R and
switch between them as needed.

### R package dependencies

This project uses the `{renv}` framework to record R package
dependencies and versions. Packages and versions used are recorded in
`renv.lock` and code used to manage dependencies is in the `renv`
directory and other files in the root project directory.

On starting an R session in the working directory of this repository,
first run

``` r
renv::restore()
```

to install R package dependencies. This is only done once when the
project is being initiated for the first time by a user.

### The workflow

The current workflow has the following steps:

``` mermaid
```

## Authors

\[LIST OF AUTHORS GOES HERE\]

## License

\[LICENSE INFORMATION GOES HERE\]

## Citation

\[CITATION INFORMATION GOES HERE\]
